It's time to talk about another
special keyword that the JavaScript
engine sets up for you automatically
when you execute a function.
It's called arguments.
And since in the next
version of JavaScript,
we probably won't use arguments as much,
we'll mention the new
approach to doing what arguments does
currently which was called spread.
But, if you're looking at any code,
especially current code of frameworks and
libraries,
their source code, you're likely
going to see the arguments variable.
So, you should know what it is and
how to use it.
As we've seen many times before,
when you execute a function,
a new execution context is created,
and the JavaScript engine
sets up some things for us like a variable
environment to hold our variables,
an outer environment reference for
the scope chain, the special keyword,
this, which will point to different things
depending on where the function lives or
how it's called, and it also sets up
another special keyword, called arguments.
Arguments contains a list
of all the values,
of all the parameters that
you pass to a function.
So arguments holds all those
values that you pass to whatever
function you're calling.
And, just to be really clear,
big word alert,
arguments, the concept
of arguments in general,
is just another name for
the parameters you pass to a function.
So you could say your parameters.
You could also say your arguments.That's
really in the case of any
programming language that has functions.
However, JavaScript gives you a keyword of
that same name which contains them all.
So when we're talking about
the concept of arguments,
we're just talking about the parameters
you pass to your function.
But the special keyword arguments
is something special that
the JavaScript engine sets up for you.
To understand arguments and
how it can be useful,
let's set up another simple scenario.
We've been using this idea of
a greeting function a lot,
so let's create a function greet.
And it'll be firstname,
lastname, and language.
And then inside here
all I'm going to do for
now is just log all of these parameters,
all of these arguments,
that I've passed to my function.
Let's do that.
Okay.
So, if I call greet then it's
going to log these values.
Now here's what's unusual about
JavaScript compared to other languages.
I can just call greet and
not have any parameters passed to it.
In other programming languages
this would be an error.
It would say, well I expect these values,
but JavaScript doesn't care.
If I go run this in my browser, and I'll
refresh the page here, I get undefined.
So, hoisting,
that thing that happens when the function
is executed, where it sets up the values,
takes care of these parameters for me
even though I haven't given them values.
It executed the greet function,
and the first thing it did was set up
memory space for firstname, lastname, and
language and set them equal to undefined,
just like we've already learned.
And the fact that we didn't give
it any values to set it to, well,
JavaScript didn't care.
It still set up the memory space,
and they're equal to undefined,
just like we've learned before.
And then, if I start to pass arguments,
they'll be processed left to right.
So, if I pass John,
it will assume that this
one is the first name and that I've passed
nothing to the lastname and language.
So, what I see, and
just to make sure we separate clearly
these different parameters, or
these different function calls,
I'm just gonna put a line there so
that we see that in the console log.
So, first we'll see this get outputted,
then we'll see this get outputted.
And when I run this, you'll see
now that firstname holds John and
the other two are still
undefined because of hoisting.
So I could go on, and I could pass Doe.
And I could pass Doe
and en for English or es for
Spanish, or whatever.
And, we'll see that on each one of
those subsequent function invocations,
each time I run that function,
first I have three undefineds, then two,
then only language is undefined, and
then they're all three are defined.
So, this means that you can skip
the passing of parameters or you can pass
only part of this list of parameters,
and JavaScript's okay with that.
While this feels a little weird, it
actually introduces some powerful concepts
to the language under
certain circumstances.
For example,
in the next version of JavaScript,
I'll be able to set a default parameter.
I'll be able to say,
if you don't give me a value,
then make it English for example here.
If I don't give you language,
if this is undefined in these first
three cases here then set this value.
However, as that's not available
in all modern browsers yet, and
older ones as well, you can use
that default parameter concept,
the default value concept,
to set up default parameters.
So I could say,
language is equal to language or English.
So, if this is undefined,
it gets passed to the or operator,
gets coerced to false cuz undefined
coerced is to false, remember?
And then I'll end up with this value,
English,
getting passed to the equals operator,
so language will end up equaling English
if it's undefined by the time I
start running this statement.
All right, let's try that.
Refresh.
Notice now, instead of undefined for
language, I get English.
English.
And then when I do pass it,
it just stays Spanish.
See that?
So, I've set up default
parameters using this approach.
In the next version of JavaScript I'll
be able to just put it right there
where I declare the parameter
while defining the function.
And at this point we can
also show you that there's
a special keyword that this
JavaScript engine has set up for us.
Just like the keyword, this,
we have a new keyword called arguments.
Notice I didn't declare it anywhere.
It's just automatically available to me.
The execution context made
sure that I have this set up.
So what do I get when I see arguments?
Let's look.
Well notice, that it's
containing a list of all the values
of the parameters that I've passed.
See that?
So you might notice that this
kind of looks like an array, but
we generally declare an array
with brackets, like that.
Those are slighty italicized brackets.
That's because the argument's
special thing that
the JavaScript engine sets up
is what we'd call array-like.
You'll see that if you look it up.
That means that it acts like an array,
it looks like an array, but
it isn't exactly a JavaScript array.
Only in the sense that it doesn't have
all the features of a JavaScript array.
A lot of people are upset about this too.
They think that's wrong.
I agree.
I think arguments should just
be a regular JavaScript array,
but, that's what the engine does.
It's sufficed to say that it acts
enough like an array that we can use it
in the same way under most circumstances.
So for example if I don't want my
function to try to do anything,
if no parameters are passed,
I could check the arguments.length,
and if it's zero, meaning that since
it contains the list of all the values
a length of zero,
just like any array would mean it's empty.
I could do something like,
Missing parameters.
Then I'll just drop this and return.
And the return statement will just
kick me back out of the function, and
it won't do any of this.
So if I save and run this, look at that.
Missing parameters, and then it goes
on when I finally have some parameters
because this arguments
variable.length is greater than zero.
That is it isn't zero,
it just skip this if and moves on.
So I could do something special depending
on how many arguments was passed to me,
for example.
And although arguments doesn't
contain the names of the arguments,
just the values,
I could use it like an array.
I can use the brackets operator and
say, give me an argument
value at that position.
So the zero position
being the first position.
And I should see that there, and
just to be clear what it is,
I'll just say arg 0 like that.
And if I go back, and refresh, we see that
arg 0 is John because
it's the first element
in this array-like
structure called arguments.
So that's arguments, when you see this
being used you can understand what it is.
It's worth saying that as time goes on,
arguments will become
what's called deprecated.
That means that it's something
that will still be around but
won't be the best way to
do something anymore.
There'll be something new.
The new thing is called
a spread parameter.
That means that if I
have parameters that I'm
passing to a function,
I can add a parameter with a...
and then a name.
Whatever that name might
be that I want to call it.
And if I add on,
tack on other parameters in the call,
let's say I added on address and
a street name and a city name,
or something like that.
These extra parameters that
aren't defined explicitly
all get wrapped up into
a JavaScript array.
So this, ..., means take everything else,
and wrap it up into an array of this name.
This isn't completely available yet
either, but once it becomes available,
then it will be the preferred
approach to dealing with various
sequences and various numbers
of arguments of parameters.
So, that's just good to know about.
But again, right now,
you'll see a lot of usage of arguments.